[Unknown]: Welcome to the IBM Podcast Network.
[Amit Varma]: I had an interesting dream the other night.
[Amit Varma]: At least it started off well.
[Amit Varma]: I died and went to heaven.
[Amit Varma]: That's a good start because I could have died and found myself in a traffic jam on the Western Express Highway on a Friday evening,
[Amit Varma]: which I suppose is one idea of hell.
[Amit Varma]: Anyway, so I died and went to heaven and I didn't even need an Aadhaar card to get in.
[Amit Varma]: They took one look at me and said,
[Amit Varma]: Come on in, Mr. Verma.
[Amit Varma]: You've been a good man.
[Amit Varma]: You fought the good fight against the evil tentacles of the devil's spawn, also known as government.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to heaven.
[Amit Varma]: I walked in and it was beautiful.
[Amit Varma]: The air smelt of jasmine, a flower particularly close to my heart.
[Amit Varma]: And the grass was green, the air was fresh.
[Amit Varma]: And all around me were picnic baskets with seafood platters in them.
[Amit Varma]: Oh, the prawns.
[Amit Varma]: I ate six prawns from one of those platters, though I should have stopped at two.
[Amit Varma]: And then I noticed that all the buildings around me look the same.
[Amit Varma]: In fact, they were all cinema halls.
[Amit Varma]: I went to the nearest such amphitheater, where the attendant told me that people in heaven did nothing but watch movies all the time and eat seafood platters.
[Amit Varma]: This really is heaven, I thought to myself.
[Amit Varma]: I walked up to the movie schedule.
[Amit Varma]: All my favorite filmmakers were listed.
[Amit Varma]: There was Kieslowski, there was Fellini, there was Scorsese, there was Shatrujit Rai.
[Amit Varma]: But then I noticed one problem.
[Amit Varma]: All these films were dubbed in Kannada.
[Amit Varma]: I don't know Kannada.
[Amit Varma]: Maybe this was a Kannada amphitheater.
[Amit Varma]: I asked the attendant about this, who told me that every single theater in heaven showed only Kannada films.
[Amit Varma]: All non-Kannada films had to be dubbed into Kannada before they were allowed to release.
[Amit Varma]: But why? I asked.
[Amit Varma]: Why this rule? Why only Kannada?
[Amit Varma]: At this moment, I realized that the attendant looked just like my friend, Bhawan Srinath.
[Amit Varma]: In fact, he was my friend, Bhawan Srinath.
[Amit Varma]: Bhawan looked at me, grinned widely and said,
[Amit Varma]: This is payback!
[Unknown]: Welcome to The Scene and the Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science.
[Unknown]: Please welcome your host, Amit Badma.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to The Scene and the Unseen,
[Amit Varma]: where I begin by trying to entertain you, but in the end, hope to enlighten you.
[Amit Varma]: My guest today, as you no doubt know by now, is Bhawan Srinath, my colleague at the magazine Pragati
[Amit Varma]: and a fellow at the Takshashila Institution in Bengaluru.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to the show, Bhawan.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks for having me.
[Amit Varma]: Bhawan, have you seen Lord of the Rings in Kannada?
[Guest]: Unfortunately, no. Only in English.
[Guest]: Why?
[Guest]: Because it cannot be seen in Kannada.
[Guest]: You can see it in Tamil, perhaps, or in Hindi, but not in Kannada.
[Amit Varma]: Explain this to me. That seems like a shocking loss for Kannada speakers. Why not?
[Guest]: So, Karnataka and the Kannada film industry have this weird history of having banned
[Guest]: dubbing of any movies or even TV content into the language from anywhere else.
[Guest]: This is so bizarre. Why?
[Guest]: So, this is obviously unconstitutional and illegal.
[Guest]: But what happened was, the state, by the way, was born out of a new political movement in independent India, right?
[Guest]: Around 1956.
[Guest]: And around that time, the Kannada film industry was also trying to find its feet.
[Guest]: People who are thought of as stalwarts today, you know, people like Rajkumar in Karnataka,
[Guest]: they were up and coming back then, and the South Indian film industry was dominated
[Guest]: and run out of Chennai.
[Guest]: So, movies were coming into Bangalore and Mysore and other regions of Karnataka,
[Guest]: but they were all dubbed from Tamil into Kannada.
[Guest]: So, this started as a little protectionist movement to say that,
[Guest]: hey, no dubbing allowed into Kannada.
[Guest]: We will just have our own movies for our own public.
[Guest]: And what started from that sort of a protectionist move just became the norm for close to 50 audience.
[Amit Varma]: Wow. So, I'm guessing the impetus behind the move would have been people in the local Kannada film industry
[Amit Varma]: who would therefore have been influential within the Kannada elites,
[Amit Varma]: who kind of just wanted to be protected from competition, and therefore the rule came about.
[Guest]: For what it's worth, I think many of them genuinely believed that
[Guest]: without having some form of protectionism, they cannot take on higher capital
[Guest]: and higher resources of the Tamil Nadu film industry.
[Guest]: They were starting from scratch.
[Guest]: So, I don't particularly want to judge them too harshly.
[Guest]: They did what they could.
[Guest]: And remember that this was also a time where the politics around the language was very important.
[Guest]: So, they drew strength saying that by defending the Kannada film industry and protecting its interests,
[Guest]: they can protect the interests of Kannada as a language and Kannadiga as a set of language speakers.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I'm not doubting their motives.
[Amit Varma]: We will all after all act in our own self-interest.
[Amit Varma]: And that's, you know, for multiple reasons, the smartest thing for them to do.
[Amit Varma]: Now, the scene effect of this obviously is that for decades,
[Amit Varma]: you did not have any other content dubbed into Kannada.
[Guest]: What are the unseen effects?
[Guest]: So, the scene effect, I want to elaborate the way people see it is that Kannada movies,
[Guest]: Kannada entertainment was given a unique platform in its own state, right?
[Guest]: So, the idea is there is no other state government in the country which can bestow patronage upon this language.
[Guest]: So, here is this one state government and in this one state where it's sort of protected and allowed to flourish, right?
[Unknown]: So, that's the scene effect as they see it.
[Guest]: The unseen effect is a complete lack of competition to Kannada films for over 50 years.
[Guest]: So, what's happened is, while 50 years ago, people in say Mysore and Belgaum and various parts of Karnataka would go watch movies in Kannada,
[Guest]: they slowly started shifting to watching movies in Malayalam, watching movies in Telugu, in Tamil and so on,
[Guest]: many of them which have very, very dynamic film industry.
[Guest]: So, what happened was the market for Kannada movies itself started shrinking and the quality of Kannada movies also started deteriorating.
[Guest]: So, one of the things if you see, the Kannada film industry today is about 2% of the South Indian film industries combined.
[Guest]: Population wise, we are like a fourth, if not more, but the film industry is that much smaller.
[Guest]: There are no corporate houses which are investing into Kannada films the way they are with Telugu and Tamil films.
[Guest]: Why? Because it's now a very bad market with this ban on dubbing just being one of the many protectionist moves by the film industry.
[Amit Varma]: So, essentially what you're saying is that people who would have liked watching movies in Kannada,
[Amit Varma]: because they simply didn't have so many movies available to watch in Kannada,
[Amit Varma]: developed the habit of instead watching those movies in Telugu or Tamil or whatever,
[Amit Varma]: and therefore, as a reason, their desire to consume Kannada content shrank and the market shrank.
[Amit Varma]: And as the market shrank, incentives grew smaller for people to come in and make quality films for that market.
[Amit Varma]: And it became a sort of a vicious circle, which is why the film industry is at such a pathetic…
[Guest]: Absolutely. And along with that, the options and the quality of entertainment options for Kannada speakers have reduced.
[Guest]: Because those people who can understand other languages a little bit are watching that.
[Guest]: But a lot of people don't understand any language other than Kannada.
[Guest]: And so, they are completely robbed of entertainment options.
[Guest]: They are robbed of television programming as well.
[Guest]: I mean, so, though this ban started with the film industry, today, as of a couple of years ago,
[Guest]: you couldn't have an English cartoon channel in Kannada, you couldn't have the history channel,
[Guest]: National Geographic, Discovery Channel, none of these could be dubbed into Kannada.
[Guest]: And this is the age where they started getting dubbed into almost every other Indian language,
[Guest]: enabling access to quality science and history and, you know, kiddy entertainment content
[Guest]: that would have otherwise been impossible for us to create locally.
[Amit Varma]: Now, a lot of state interventions tend to help certain special interest groups.
[Amit Varma]: At the expense of the people at large.
[Amit Varma]: But here, while the people at large have suffered a loss because of this,
[Amit Varma]: who are the beneficiaries? Because the Kannada film industry itself is in bad shape.
[Guest]: They're in bad shape, but they're happy sort of staying in that status quo.
[Guest]: Big fish in a small pond.
[Guest]: Yeah. So, what they have done is they've co-opted the machineries of the state government to giving, you know,
[Guest]: subsidies of various sorts, little, little things, little promotions, differential pricing for Kannada films versus other films.
[Guest]: A differential entertainment tax.
[Guest]: So, all those things that are, well, a little par for the course in the country.
[Guest]: But what's like the, the layer of cream on this horrible cake?
[Guest]: Is this completely illegal, completely unconstitutional ban on competition to your films?
[Amit Varma]: So, has it never, if it's unconstitutional, has it never been challenged in court?
[Amit Varma]: What's the sort of history of that?
[Guest]: So, what happened was, with this informal ban coming in place in the 60s,
[Guest]: till the 2000s or so, even the narrative that this is a bad thing was not there.
[Guest]: You know, it had complete narrative dominance that this is good for Kannadigas, this is good for the industry and everyone.
[Guest]: Around then, you had a lot more Kannadigas who became more prosperous,
[Guest]: who entered the tech industry in Bangalore, who entered other things,
[Guest]: who had also seen the world a little and started writing about,
[Guest]: hey, you know, our film industry is terrible.
[Guest]: In fact, there was a whole period and there's a whole type of films in the Kannada film industry called the machu long films,
[Guest]: talking about the machetes and the long machetes.
[Guest]: Because that's what the films were about.
[Guest]: They were about people hacking and slashing each other.
[Amit Varma]: Which is all film should be about.
[Amit Varma]: But with a lot of taste and exquisite.
[Amit Varma]: I mean, you want a katana and not a machete.
[Amit Varma]: A lot of the rings in Kannada, again.
[Guest]: So, in the 2000s, the narrative started getting contested, you know,
[Guest]: people then formed little language groups and also a consumers forum to say that
[Guest]: we want more entertainment content in Kannada.
[Guest]: For the first time, there was this growing public awareness that the film industry's
[Guest]: interests are not the same as the languages interests.
[Guest]: And it's amazing to look at the motivations of those who went on this.
[Guest]: It was not just that people who were, you know, liberal, fighting for liberty, fighting for economic freedom.
[Guest]: But basically, the argument was that if you have, say, Discovery Channel getting dubbed into Kannada,
[Guest]: then you will have more Kannada words that get created and that get used.
[Guest]: I mean, right now, for example, the internet is called Antar Jala,
[Guest]: Antar Jala, right, which is a literal translation of inter and web.
[Guest]: And, you know, the moment you have more dubbing happening of, you know, music, entertainment,
[Guest]: science, history, you will just have more words that are coming into Kannada,
[Guest]: more the language gets modernized as a result of it.
[Guest]: So, from a deep rooted language development and activism angle,
[Guest]: they sort of came in and said, hey, let's have more competition in the film industry.
[Amit Varma]: I find this to be an absolutely mind blowing argument because normally,
[Amit Varma]: you know, a lot of the protectionism is driven by sort of language chauvinism.
[Amit Varma]: We need to protect our language.
[Amit Varma]: And this is speaking on behalf of the language and saying that instead of protecting the
[Amit Varma]: language, quote unquote, by shutting access, we need to make it richer by opening access,
[Amit Varma]: which is such a fantastic argument that it's not, like you said,
[Amit Varma]: this is not an argument made on grounds of liberalism or individual freedom or what have you.
[Amit Varma]: But, you know, it's a conservative argument in a sense.
[Guest]: Yeah. I mean, if you want more people to be attracted to Kannada as a language, make great
[Guest]: art. Right. I think that recognition has dawned slowly because I think people have seen great
[Guest]: art being made in neighboring states. I mean, the Tamil film industry has come out with some
[Guest]: absolute gems. For a while, it was sort of leading the Bollywood
[Amit Varma]: industry as well in terms of what kind of movies were made.
[Amit Varma]: I'm not familiar with the Tamil industry, but I'm familiar with Bollywood and that doesn't
[Amit Varma]: surprise me.
[Guest]: So, this is what has happened. Now, as a result of this, a few years ago, the Consumers Association
[Guest]: got together and filed a case with the Competition Commission saying that the film industry is
[Guest]: acting as a cartel and it's abusing market power and doing a lot of illegal things,
[Guest]: including sort of brute force thuggery, you know, threatening people if they wanted to go
[Guest]: against the consensus. And the Competition Commission took its time and then finally
[Guest]: said, look, they are illegal. I mean, the practices are illegal and even slapped some
[Guest]: fines on to the film industry association and related bodies.
[Guest]: So, does the law still exist?
[Guest]: There's never been a law which bans dubbing. So, this is a mob rule in action. This is
[Guest]: the state not enforcing the rule of law. So, what has happened as a result is stakeholders,
[Guest]: market players have become risk averse. They just don't want to take the risk to do something
[Guest]: like this. No one wants to be the first one to dub a movie, you know, when the returns
[Guest]: are very uncertain. So, what the Competition Commission judgment and other things have
[Guest]: done is they've signaled saying, look, this is all right. You should go ahead. You sort
[Guest]: of have the blessing of the state. And after the decision a couple of years ago, you've
[Guest]: had about three movies getting dubbed into Kannada. They're small movies. They're not
[Guest]: things that you would actually want to go to watch in a theater, but they're something.
[Guest]: And now the campaign is on to get a big Indian movie or a big foreign movie dubbed into Kannada
[Guest]: because that would be the watershed moment. Because once it is done and once it somehow
[Guest]: runs successfully, even in Bangalore, where the mob power is the most, then the flood
[Amit Varma]: gates are completely open. But, you know, even though you talk of mob power, where does
[Amit Varma]: the mob get its sustenance from? After all, every Kannada speaker would benefit from films
[Guest]: being dubbed in Kannada. No, but this conflation of Kannada interest, because film stars in
[Guest]: India are demigods. I mean, they, some have become very, very successful popular politicians,
[Guest]: including in South Indian states. Karnataka, by the way, is the one state in which the
[Guest]: biggest actors stayed away from politics. Because your industry is so small.
[Guest]: But Raj Kumar was a big, very, very big figure within that small industry. And, you know,
[Guest]: he had played past kings from the Kannada history. So, you know, you have all that symbolism
[Guest]: around him. So, when the film industry is seen as a champion of the language and the
[Guest]: history and the culture of that state, there's a lot of cognitive dissonance in people's
[Guest]: heads that these guys are the ones who are responsible for keeping our language where
[Guest]: they are. And to have fought that successfully over a decade, and this is a shout out to
[Guest]: one of my friends, Vasan Shetty, very active in the Consumers Forum. They've done a mammoth
[Guest]: job to marshal all kinds of arguments and persuade large numbers of people over a decade
[Guest]: that this is the wrong thing. And then they followed it up with constitutional methods,
[Guest]: went to the competition commission. And now we have to wait for the larger public and
[Amit Varma]: the markets to decide what happens. I have to say this is very heartening that at least
[Amit Varma]: in one aspect, India is moving in the right direction. So, before I end this episode,
[Amit Varma]: I have one request for you. I want you to translate one line into Kannada for me.
[Guest]: All right. One ring to rule them all.
[Guest]: That's mind-blowing. Pavan, thanks for coming on the show.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks, Amit.
[Amit Varma]: Well, that was fun. So much so that I shall now go off and read The Lord of the Rings.
[Amit Varma]: Meanwhile, if you want to check out some of Pavan's writing, hop over to the magazine
[Amit Varma]: Pragati at thinkpragati.com. I'm the editor of Pragati. Pavan is our superstar writer.
[Amit Varma]: On the site, you'll also find a new podcast called the Pragati Podcast, hosted by Pavan
[Amit Varma]: and a fine lady named Hamsini Hariharan. Once in a while, I'll be dropping in. Goodbye for
[Amit Varma]: now and may every dream you dream take you straight to heaven.
[Unknown]: Next week on The Scene and the Unseen, Amit Verma will be talking to Ramesh Naam about
[Unknown]: artificial intelligence. For more, go to sceneunseen.in.
[Amit Varma]: If you enjoyed listening to The Scene and the Unseen, check out another hit show from
[Amit Varma]: Indus Vox Media Network's Cyrus Says, which is hosted by my old colleague from MTV,
[Amit Varma]: Cyrus Brocha. You can download it on iTunes or any other podcasting network.
[Unknown]: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your captain speaking. Sorry to say,
[Unknown]: but there's been a slight delay due to the apocalypse having suddenly begun.
[Unknown]: As you can see, there's death, destruction and chaos taking place all around us. But don't
[Unknown]: you worry, food and drinks will be served shortly and I would recommend checking out
[Unknown]: IVM Podcasts to get some of your favorite Indian podcasts.
[Unknown]: We'll keep you going till this whole thing blows over. Thank you.